http://www.springhole.net/writing_roleplaying_randomators/fashion-style-preference.htm use this for physical appearance. 

NPC behaviors:

person on boat 1: (teen girl/guard)

Your character is fond of rich colors and really likes clothes that are fairly sturdy.  Your character also is partial to flashy jewelry.

	(maybe she explains the premise of the game to you somehow?? you ask about how to get farther out and she points at the row boat and tells you how to get across the bridges/ropes)
	if you don't have a cookie:
		"Want to hear a good joke?"
		>> yes
		(begins telling joke) "Oh, I can't tell it right, I'm too hungry to concentrate!"
		"Everything's a mess with spring cleaning right now, and nobody can get to the pantry." 
	if you do have a cookie:
		(munch munch munch) "Thanks! I'll tell you a joke -- " (tells joke)
		"What's brown and sticky?"
		"A stick!"
		
person between boats 2 and 3: (a young man) CONNECTION 

Your character goes for murky colors and is fond of a flowing look.  Your character also has a penchant for hats and has a penchant for simple jewelry.

Your character likes warm colors and likes a vintage look.  Your character also favors belts and scarves and loves flashy jewelry.

	if you don't have a toy: 
		"This is where we're storing food at the moment. Could you give us a minute? My baby girl is being very fussy." (Doesn't let you pass)
	if you do have a toy:
		*baby plays with toy and is happy
		"Oh, thank you so much! Why don't you go get yourself a cookie from the yacht?"
		
person on boat 5: (older woman)

Your character goes for soft colors and is fond of an eclectic look.  Your character also loves simple jewelry.

	"Could you help me clean up this mess?"
	(cleans--return a random description of stuff you find)
	if toy: 
		"You find a baby's toy"
		person says: "Oh, I don't need that anymore, my little boy's outgrown it."
		You got a toy!!!
	"Thanks so much for helping me clean--it looks way better! I think I can take it from here now." 
	
person between boats 4 and 6: (little boy) CONNECTION 

Your character has a taste for vivid colors and leans toward a sporty look.  Your character also likes flashy jewelry.

	"I'm bored!"
	"Tell me a joke!"
	if you don't tell him a joke:
		"UUUUUUUGHHHHH"
		(sprawls all over the bridge to the next boat)
	if you do: 
		*cracks up laughing
		*falls in water
		*you pull him out
			*he gives you attitude -- "I could have gotten myself out" 
		if you don't pull him out
			he gets out, gets mad at you for not helping
	either way, the rope is now clear for you to climb out to the sail boat. 
	
boat 6: victory!!
	(tell story about the pirate ship coming)